Now, here's a potential problem with decision trees.
Let's say we have a humongous table with lots and lots of columns.
So, we create our decision tree and let's say it looks like this.
This is not a realistic tree though, just an example.
We end up with answers like the following.
If a client is male,
between 15 and 25,
in the US, on Android, in school,
like tennis, pizza but does not like long walks on the beach,
then they're likely to download Pokemon Go.
This is not good. This almost looks like the tree just memorize a data.
It's overfitting. Decision trees tend to overfit a lot.
In the continuous case, this can also happen and it looks like this.
The decision tree has many nodes which end up giving us
a complicated boundary that pretty much borders every point with a small square.
This is also overfitting as it doesn't generalize well to the data.
So, how do we solve this in the simplest possible way? Take a look at this.
Let's take our data and say,
pick some of the columns randomly.
Build a decision tree in those columns.
Now, pick some other columns randomly and build
a decision tree and those, and do it again.
Now, just let the trees vote.
When we have a new data point,
say this person over here,
we just let all the trees make a prediction and pick the one that appears the most.
For example, these trees decided that
this person will download Snapchat, WhatsApp and WhatsApp.
So, the ensemble of trees will recommend WhatsApp.